This was kind of like a really like,
high level overview, and
all of the above steps, and
if you want that in much greater detail,
I have a blog post that really
breaks down what it's doing.
And it is an older blog post
that is based on a previous
implementation of the D3 force layout but
most of the concepts remain the same.
So I think reading this one and
will definitely help you understand how
the force layout is currently implemented.
And just like a quick see some quick like
fun applications of D3 force in my own
work and because I really enjoy using it.
And so for example,
when I scroll through this particular
visualization this is a visualization
on the musical Hamilton.
The dots that are just kind of like
jumping around in the background
that's done with the force Leo.
And that's basically saying like
on every scroll just like and
have some random forces and
let it just run wild.
And once I get to this point,
they actually kind of come in and
snap to these positions.
And these positions are actually
calculated with D3 force and
there is a particular force that is,
you can specify that each
of these news be trying to be centering
on a specific x and y coordinate.
So like each of these are like nodes.
Each of these nodes are a series
of lyrics in the same song,
and that's how they're kind
of being grouped together.
I'm using D3 force to group that together.
So I'm using D3 force in two different
ways in this particular example.
And this one is a more recent
project of mine and is
a how a pandemic might potentially
spread through a community
in it takes actual data
from a particular zip code.
And the way that I used
force here is every time and
these dots each of these dots
represent people and every time they
move from their houses to the center,
and I'm using D3 force to
calculate that position.
Back and forth kinda make this like fun,
a little bit like not a smooth
animation to its end destination, but
more of like, it runs into things,
it bumps into each other.
And actually,
it's a very subtle detail, but
I slightly changed the force layout
code such that and the dots, avoid
the other houses that it doesn't belong
to when it's trying to get to the center.
So, yeah, it's it actually avoids
all of the other buildings.
So it was also a fun use of force.
And the final one I'm gonna share
is this one that we did for
the Guardian, and in this one is about
the homeless relocation program in the US.
And like it,
The Guardian did a really amazing
job on the investigative reporting so
if you're interested, please check it out.
But the place where I used the D3
force actually I think and
not he also used the D3
force layout here and
she used like a radial force to
position each of these nodes and
in these kind of layers and then.
I used D3 force for this animation and and
first to kinda centre the nodes
on each of these kinda groups and
then as the animation starts.
This animation is also using D3 force to
calculate the position as it goes and
from one group to the other,
and this one can comes back.
It is D3 force because of the series of
takes where it's doing the calculation.
And because in each of those
takes the positions get nudged,
and so slightly and
incrementally it kinda gives this like
More natural looking animation effect
than if you had just done like an enemy's
animation with like a linear ease or
something like that.
So, whenever you're,
you want to visualize something that
like looks a little bit more organic.
And I think force layout actually
lends itself really nicely to that.
So, I just wanting to show
some applications of it and
without the context of it being in
a traditional node and link graph.
A lot of the examples I gave are taking
advantage of these two forces
that are positioning around
certain focal points and
the second force being avoiding collision.